➢ Go to Layer → add Layer → add Delimited Text Layer and load “signif.txt” from data file.
➢ Go to Layer → Add Layer → Add vector Layer and from data folder
“\GIS_Workshop\Practicals\Practical_08\A\DATA\ne_10m_populated_places_simple.zip” load 
the layer to the project and remove all rows from attribute table other than India
➢ Go to Vector→ Analysis tool → Distance Matrix
➢ Calculate the Distance matrix and perform Nearest Neighbor Analysis 
➢ Now you will be able to see the content of our results. The InputID field contains the field name 
from the Earthquake layer. The TargetID field contains the name of the feature from the 
Populated Places layer that was the closest to the earthquake point. The Distance field is the 
distance between the 2 points

7. Here select the earthquake layer signif as the Input point layer and the populated 
places ne_10m_populated_places_simpleas the target layer. You also need to select a unique 
field from each of these layers which is how your results will be displayed.
In this analysis, we 
are looking to get only 1 nearest point, so check the Use only the nearest(k) target points, and 
enter 1. Name your output file matrix.csv, and click OK. Once the processing finishes, 
click Close.

8. Once the processing finishes, click the Close button in the Distance Matrix dialog. You can now 
view the matrix.csv file in Notepad or any text editor. QGIS can import CSV files as well, so 
we will add it to QGIS and view it there. Go to Layer ‣Add Layer ‣Add Delimited Text 
Layer....

9. Browse to the newly created matrix.csv file. Since this file is just text columns, select No 
geometry (attribute only table) as theGeometry definition. Click OK

10. You will see the CSV file loaded as a table. Right-click on the table layer and select Open 
Attribute Table

11. Now you will be able to see the content of our results. The InputID field contains the field name 
from the Earthquake layer. The TargetID field contains the name of the feature from the 
Populated Places layer that was the closest to the earthquake point. The Distance field is the 
distance between the 2 points

12. This is very close to the result we were looking for. For some users, this table would be 
sufficient. However, we can also integrate this results in our original Earthquake layer using 
a Table Join. Right-click on the Earthquake layer, and select Properties

13. Go to the Joins tab and click on the + button.

14. We want to join the data from our analysis result to this layer. We need to select a field from 
each of the layers that has the same values. Select matrix as the Join layer` and InputID as the Join field.
The Target field would be I_D. Leave other options to their default values and 
click OK.

15. You will see the join appear in the Joins tab. Click OK.

16. Now open the attribute table of the signif layer by right-clicking and selecting Open Attribute 
Table

17. You will see that for every Earthquake feature, we now have an attribute which is the nearest 
neighbor (closest populated place) and the distance to the nearest neighbor

18. We will now explore a way to visualize these results. First, we need to make the table join 
permanent by saving it to a new layer. Right-click the signif layer and select Save As...

19. Click the Browse button next to Save as label and name the output layer 
as earthquake_with_places.shp. Make sure the Add saved file to map box is checked and 
click OK

20. Once the new layer is loaded, you can turn off the visibility of the signif layer. As our dataset is 
quite large, we can run our visualization analysis on a subset of the data. QGIS has a neat 
feature where you can load a subset of features from a layer without having to export it to a new 
layer. Right-click the earthquake_with_places layer and select Properties

21. In the General tab, scroll down to the Feature subset section. Click Query Builder.

22. For this tutorial, we will visualize the earthquakes and their nearest populated places for 
Mexico. Enter the following expression in the Query Builder dialog

23. You will see that only the points falling within Mexico will be visible in the canvas. Let’s do 
the same for the populated places layer. Right-click on 
the ne_10m_populated_places_simple layer and select Properties

24. Open the Query Builder dialog from the General tab. Enter the following expression.

Once you 
have the plugin installed, go to MMQGIS ‣Create ‣Hub Lines.

26. Select ne_10m_populated_places_simple as the Hub Point Layer and name as the Hub ID 
Attribute. Similarly, selectearthquake_with_places as the Spoke Point Layer and matrix_Tar as 
the Spoke Hub ID Attribute. The hub lines algorithm will go through each of earthquake points 
and create a line that will join it to the populated place which matches the attribute we specified. 
Click Browse and name the Output Shapefile as earthquake_hub_lines.shp. Click OK to start 
the processing

27. The processing may take a few minutes. You can see the progress on the bottom-left corner of 
the QGIS window

28. Once the processing is done, you will see the earthquake_hub_lines layer loaded in QGIS. You 
can see that each earthquake point now has a line that connects it to the nearest populated place
