1. Go to Layer ‣ Add Vector Layer.

2. Browse to the downloaded Admin 0 Countries shapefile ne_10m_admin_0_countries.shp and 
click Open.

4. Open the Dissolve tool from Vector ‣ Geoprocessing Tools ‣ Dissolve.

5. Select ne_10m_admin_0_countries as the Input vector layer. The Dissolve field would 
be CONTINENT. Name the output file as continents.shp and check the box next to Add result 
to convas

6. The dissolve processing may take a while. Once the process finishes, you will see the 
new continent layer added to QGIS. Use the Select Single Feature tool from the toolbar and 
click on Africa to select the polygon representing the continent

7. Right-click the continents layer and select Save Selection As....

8. Name the output file as africa.shp. Since we are only interested in the shape of the continent and 
not any attributes, you may check the Skip attribute creation. Make sure the Add saved file to 
map box is checked and click OK

9. Now you will have the africa layer loaded in QGIS containing a single polygon for the entire 
continent. Now, it’s time to start our batch clip process. Open Processing ‣ Toolbox.

10. Browse all available algorithms and find the Clip tool from QGIS geoalgorithms ‣ Vector 
overlay tools ‣ Clip. You may also use the Search box to easily find the algorithm as well

11. Right-click the Clip algorithm and select Execure as batch process.

12. In the Batch Processing dialog, the first tab is Parameters where we define out inputs. Click
the ... next to the first row in the Input layer column.

13. Browse to the directory containing the global transportation layers that you had downloaded.
Hold the Ctrl key and select all the layers that you want to clip. You may also use Shift or Ctrl-
A to make multiple selection. Click Open.

14. You will notice that the Input layer columns will be auto-populated with all layers you had
selected. You may use Add row button to add more rows and define more inputs. Next, we need
to select the layer containing the boundary to clip our input layers. Click the ... button for the
first row and add the africa.shp Clip layer. Since the clip layer is the same for all our inputs, you
can double-click the column header Clip layer and the same layer will be auto-filled for all the
rows. Next, we need to define our outputs. Click the ... buton next to the first row in
the Clipped column.

15. Browse the the directory where you want your output layers. Type the filename as clipped_ and click Save.

16. You will see a new Autofill settings dialog pop up. Select Fill with parameter values as the Autofill mode. 
Select Parameter to useas Input layer. 
This setting will add the input file name to the output along with the specified output_filename.
This is important to ensure all the output files have unique names and they do not overwrite each other.

17. Now we are ready to start the batch procesing. Click Run.

18. The clip algorithm will run for each of the inputs and create output files are we have specified.
Once the batch process finishes, you will see the layers added to QGIS canvas. As you will
notice, all the global layers are properly clipped to the continent boundary that we had specified.


