➢ Go to Layer → Add Raster Layer → select “10n060e_20101117_gmted_mea300.tif”, from 
Data folder
➢ Mt. Everest - is located at the coordinates 27.9881° N, 86.9253° E.
➢ Enter 86.92, 27.98 in the coordinate field, Scale 900000 and Magnifier 100% at the bottom of 
QGIS.
➢ Press enter the view port will be centered on Himalaya Region.
➢ Crop the raster layer only for the region under study.
➢ Go to Raster → Extraction→ Clip Raster by Extent
➢ Select the raster layer (if project contains multiple layers).
➢ Select the clipping area by selecting the option Use Canvas Extends if the visible part of map 
is to be selected or manually select an area on canvas by using Select Extent on Canvas.
➢ Select the location and file name for storing clipped raster layer
➢ Press RUN.
➢ Deselect the original layer and keep the clipped one.
➢ The Clipped raster layer is representing altitude are from 103 Meters.
➢ To derive counter lines from given raster.
➢ Go to Raster → Extraction→ Contour
➢ Select the input raster layer name. Set contour interval 100.00 meters, select the output file 
name & location and check the option to add output file to project after processing.
➢ Press “RUN”.
➢ Label the layer using “ELEV” field and set appropriate symbols for line.
➢ In the Layer panel right click on Contour Raster Layer and select “Open Attribute table”, 
➢ Arrange the table in descending order based on the value of “ELEV” column.
➢ Make a copy of Contour Layer, Go to Layer →Save As
➢ Select file format as “Keyhole Markup Language”, set file name, location and Layer Name.
➢ Also set CRS to WGS 84 EPSG:4326
➢ Go to the stored location on Hard Disk and open the “Himalayan_Google_Map_File.kml” with 
Google Map.

➢ For Hill Shade surface analysis
➢ Go to Plugin → Install Georeferencer GADL.
➢ After successful installation of plugin Go to Raster → Analysis → Hill Shade
➢ Select the input raster layer, select file name and location for storing Hill Shade output file. 
➢ Press “RUN” and Close the Hill Shape Dialog window
